Caption: welcome back everyone
Caption: I'm hype of enjoyed their tires and
Caption: sausage rolls so we've got that back to
Caption: back to that session kind of kicking off
Caption: now ask people to keep kind of leaving
Caption: feedback during those sessions it's
Caption: really helpful she's man hi everyone my
Caption: name's Will Webster I work for journey
Caption: one and I'm organized a vaginal birth
Caption: recently I was really proud to get some
Caption: great engagement scores in from one of
Caption: my teams and that's what inspired me to
Caption: submit this talk a little bit of
Caption: background so my journey so far I've
Caption: been in Perth for about five years now
Caption: I'm from the UK where as a software
Caption: engineer and scrum master worked in
Caption: easyJet in the airline industry for some
Caption: time doing DevOps scaled agile and some
Caption: early clouds since coming here I've
Caption: worked with some really great people and
Caption: there's those are really familiar faces
Caption: out here and I've been lucky enough to
Caption: work with some great teams I have been a
Caption: Bankwest previously for a couple of
Caption: years and proud to say I've been part of
Caption: their their agile transformation and I'm
Caption: now presently working for bhp in the
Caption: strategy and innovation department so in
Caption: this talk we're going to talk about how
Caption: to build up a team what it means to have
Caption: a an effective and engaged team and then
Caption: how to maintain that
Caption: so first up I'll start with a little
Caption: story I once landed on a project with a
Caption: team and it became evident quickly that
Caption: the the the people that have been hired
Caption: had basically been hired because they
Caption: were available yesterday they had a
Caption: quick phone interview the CV looked okay
Caption: and they'd land them in and needless to
Caption: say that project didn't go very well it
Caption: was a struggle and that's exactly what
Caption: you shouldn't do if you try and rush
Caption: your hiring process you get a short-term
Caption: gain
Caption: but obviously in the longer term you
Caption: will pay for it so I actually really
Caption: enjoy hiring and I find it really
Caption: satisfying when you able to spot a good
Caption: talent and bring them into a team so
Caption: I'll just go through some of my
Caption: processes that I do first up just take
Caption: your time do it for aliy obviously lots
Caption: of Seavey's go through them re-read them
Caption: a couple of times it will start to blur
Caption: into one after a while so you know come
Caption: back the next day then when you do have
Caption: the people that you're interested in I
Caption: like to just give them a quick phone
Caption: call maybe 15 minutes half an hour you
Caption: don't want to waste your time all right
Caption: or theirs because it is a longer process
Caption: then when you do want to interview
Caption: people get them in and always interview
Caption: in pairs so you get some different
Caption: perspectives now for software engineers
Caption: it's really important to do a code test
Caption: I've interviewed tons of people that can
Caption: talk the talk have great CVS but when
Caption: you put them in front of a key ball that
Caption: they just fall flat and the same goes
Caption: for all types as well solution
Caption: architects give them a code test as well
Caption: give them an exercise around a
Caption: whiteboard and you know stimulate some
Caption: scrum if you're hiring Scott masters now
Caption: if you do find good talent just move
Caption: really quickly because in this industry
Caption: it doesn't hang along for for very for
Caption: people go really quickly and start small
Caption: feel the pain before you grow too
Caption: quickly start with the key roles that
Caption: you need and then grow a bit by bit and
Caption: one really important thing that I always
Caption: like to say is and it's a key tip is
Caption: always take it back to the team once
Caption: you've got a team established ask them
Caption: who they need ask them which roles are
Caption: missing
Caption: get them involved in the interviewing
Caption: process because it's their team members
Caption: at the end of the day don't suppose what
Caption: you think they need and hire that's
Caption: that's not good now when you do have the
Caption: team you want to foster this one team
Caption: mindset and to do that you need to try
Caption: and break down the job titles you need
Caption: to have a team where people will all
Caption: serve different roles now to be
Caption: cross-functional is important but that
Caption: doesn't mean you shouldn't have
Caption: specialists in your team so as you can
Caption: see up here there's this analogy of
Caption: being t-shaped so this is where you have
Caption: people that have deep rooted
Caption: specializations in certain areas and
Caption: then they'll have a wide ability of
Caption: different skill sets so given your
Caption: context you may need people that are
Caption: really good at databases you might need
Caption: front-end JavaScript skills so embrace
Caption: cross-functional teams they encourage
Caption: specialization in the right areas now
Caption: getting this mindset and this team takes
Caption: time so one way to breach that that is
Caption: to bring in some experience and some
Caption: really good developers people that have
Caption: been in hard performing teams previously
Caption: and one thing that's becoming more and
Caption: more popular now is the concept of
Caption: sticky teams instead of having a project
Caption: where you build up your team and then
Caption: disband them and build them up again
Caption: actually fund the product longer term or
Caption: as in kind of Bankwest are doing it now
Caption: these days funding experience areas
Caption: because it can take six months to really
Caption: get a team firing so you don't want to
Caption: keep chopping and changing that's really
Caption: wasteful now this slide is the favorite
Caption: side of my eight-year-old daughter so
Caption: people say there's no iron team well
Caption: that's rubbish there is bit cheesy but
Caption: it's important we all have our plots
Caption: part to play and we all contribute to
Caption: that cohesive collective unit so what
Caption: I'm going to do now is I'm going to talk
Caption: you through a few different character
Caption: types that are important if you want to
Caption: have a really great team and how you
Caption: might go about designing that into your
Caption: structures so I might just read some of
Caption: these off if that's okay so the lead
Caption: engineer so this person sits to
Caption: technical standards she will conduct
Caption: hardest interviews in a generally work
Caption: technical magic she'll raise everyone's
Caption: technical bar and this is usually what
Caption: someone says oh they mean the 10 times
Caption: developer type which is a bit of a
Caption: disputed term but I believe these
Caption: unicorns
Caption: do exist and have worked for something
Caption: the hustla they'll bend the rules when
Caption: they need to get stuff done they'll find
Caption: their little loopholes in the system
Caption: they'll have to give her things to
Caption: extract data and they set the standard
Caption: for just getting done and they will
Caption: also challenge the team in their very
Caption: thinking of how to go about that now the
Caption: little engine that could refuses to lose
Caption: she manages great things with sheer
Caption: determination sometimes it's hard to
Caption: find out this person but you can dig a
Caption: bit deeper in interviews and having
Caption: someone that listen as he makes everyone
Caption: more driven more focused and makes them
Caption: believe that great things are possible
Caption: the teacher they soak up information and
Caption: disseminate that amongst the team
Caption: they're constantly learning new
Caption: technologies or synthesizing large
Caption: amounts of information
Caption: now what they'll do is they're then
Caption: distill these critical pieces back to
Caption: the team given the right context over
Caption: time this makes everyone more productive
Caption: almost immediately and over the years
Caption: adds up tremendously the troops are this
Caption: is someone that's willing to call out on
Caption: anyone and this is the CEO of the
Caption: company or whoever need you know whoever
Caption: that may be she's willing to ask the
Caption: tough questions and it keeps the team
Caption: honest and the company transparent now
Caption: this is different from being disrupt
Caption: disruptive or negative in it in a bad
Caption: way it's more about keeping people
Caption: honest and sticking to the facts the
Caption: Energizer this is someone that froze
Caption: themselves into the task fully and
Caption: doesn't have an off switch she gets
Caption: everyone to give 100% it's so infused
Caption: everyone else becomes infused she sets
Caption: the bar for effort it makes everyone
Caption: want to work harder just they don't
Caption: disappoint her to extend this outside of
Caption: work this will be the kind of person
Caption: that's the first one to the pie and the
Caption: last one to leave now the last one in
Caption: the team the heart so this is the person
Caption: that the team misses when they're not
Caption: around
Caption: she'll bring cookies into the office you
Caption: remember people's birthdays and she
Caption: basically makes people feel better when
Caption: they're down people want to come to work
Caption: to see this person every day and having
Caption: that is obviously a massive huge
Caption: productivity boost so all these
Caption: different character types and diversity
Caption: and world types in mindsets in the way
Caption: people think are really important
Caption: because what we typically do is we look
Caption: for this 10 x developer this unicorn and
Caption: there are studies out there that show
Caption: these people exist but you don't want
Caption: ten of them in your team because you're
Caption: not really going to function very well
Caption: what you want is to be able to design
Caption: the team and craft it in such a way that
Caption: you create a team that's 10 times more
Caption: productive you get the right characters
Caption: that work well together and are
Caption: effective so this is where I think the
Caption: real value is where there are people
Caption: that are able to craft teams and help
Caption: them collaborate and and maintain that
Caption: so something to avoid the DEF March so
Caption: I'm going to kind of talk you through
Caption: this and see pattern so you land on a
Caption: project straight where this panic you
Caption: know that it's not achievable there's
Caption: been these grand promises lauded in by
Caption: the pre-sales team there are estimates
Caption: that have been given by some lofty
Caption: Enterprise Architect it's going to be
Caption: nowhere near your project and comes from
Caption: a different division and won't have any
Caption: skin in the game in this one now of
Caption: course it's a fixed priced engagement
Caption: and any changes that are inevitable as
Caption: the customer starts to learn more about
Caption: the domain will be shoved off into the
Caption: hotly disputed change management process
Caption: you've landed on a feature that no one
Caption: really cares about but has to be
Caption: delivered because it's in the statement
Caption: of work and relies upon a payment
Caption: milestone now inevitably the client
Caption: starts to learn more about the domain
Caption: and wants to change things right and
Caption: when the project starts to slip for six
Caption: months for nine months for 12 months
Caption: that's when the
Caption: comes in and they take these new ideas
Caption: and renegotiate price and so forth and
Caption: the culture starts to die a little bit
Caption: you go in there it's not a fun place to
Caption: be anymore
Caption: in fact you kind of forget why your love
Caption: of coding came about you you don't look
Caption: forward coming into working in more
Caption: you're thinking about a career change
Caption: you know maybe there's something else
Caption: you should try and throw your throw your
Caption: hand at a little piece of you is
Caption: beginning to die inside so I don't know
Caption: but is that familiar to anyone out there
Caption: I suspect it might be well there is an
Caption: alternative way there is a different way
Caption: to deliver software so is it important
Caption: for people to really understand to be
Caption: invested in what they're doing do people
Caption: want to understand the role that they
Caption: play in the software they're building do
Caption: people want to be encouraged to get out
Caption: of bed and come to work with a smile or
Caption: yes
Caption: sure they do this matters very much and
Caption: the great organizations I've worked in
Caption: have done this really well so what
Caption: they've done is that they will explain
Caption: the company strategy far and wide
Caption: they'll make sure they overly
Caption: communicate that that everyone
Caption: understands all the way from the senior
Caption: level executives to the juniors of the
Caption: team so there's true alignment a good
Caption: way a good thing is also to be open and
Caption: transparent with company results know
Caption: how things going in the market how are
Caption: things developing and so forth and it's
Caption: also important to have one pages for
Caption: your team's and for your initiatives to
Caption: act as terms of reference you can give
Caption: these to new starters but also acts as
Caption: reference points for the team later on
Caption: and I like to go and do a little straw
Caption: poll to make sure everyone's still
Caption: aligned now having a right environment
Caption: where you can do the build measure learn
Caption: how that mindset is crucial what you
Caption: want to avoid is having these fudge
Caption: spreadsheets that only are given to
Caption: middle management you want to have
Caption: analytics for everyone and this is how
Caption: the modern companies of today startups
Caption: and some of the larger enterprises
Caption: built from the ground up and this
Caption: enables teams to actually enact and see
Caption: and measure the impact of what they're
Caption: doing and that's really important so
Caption: self-organization so what you want to
Caption: have is ideally a team of leaders you
Caption: want to have a safe environment where
Caption: people can speak up give their ideas
Caption: challenge each other now
Caption: it takes time to get a team to this
Caption: stage so I find you have to adjust your
Caption: leadership style sometimes if less
Caption: mature teams you have to be more
Caption: directive then you can move into your
Caption: coaching mode or supporting so it's
Caption: really important to have an awareness of
Caption: situational leadership there's also
Caption: quite a few team performance models that
Caption: are worth reading up so there's a Dexter
Caption: and sibling pouncing ball the storming
Caption: norming forming and there's another one
Caption: which I quite liked called the evolution
Caption: of the dev team and the end state is
Caption: this team that they're like a wolf pack
Caption: which i think is a great analogy and I
Caption: really love so with the team you want
Caption: them to have ownership you want them to
Caption: own the plan and the target and also to
Caption: own the estimates that they're being
Caption: held account to and this is what's truly
Caption: powerful this is what empowers a team
Caption: and leads to engagement if they're the
Caption: ones that are masters of their own
Caption: destiny now an effective team what does
Caption: that feel like well it's a fun place to
Caption: be
Caption: you get done you have a voice you
Caption: can speak up and you also are able to to
Caption: try new things there are three key
Caption: things in terms of what drives people to
Caption: perform one is purpose which you've
Caption: talked about before the other is mastery
Caption: so being able to try new things new
Caption: tools new practices and also autonomy so
Caption: that's laid out in in the famous book by
Caption: Dan pink drive a great and effective
Caption: team we'll also have the respect of
Caption: those around them so that would be
Caption: management and it'll also be other teams
Caption: and they'll have the ability to all work
Caption: together and swarm around problems sorry
Caption: the tricky part when things are not so
Caption: good it's really crucial to be honest
Caption: ask people questions don't assume
Caption: because we all have things going on in
Caption: our personal lives so take the time if
Caption: someone isn't performing set
Caption: expectations the worst thing you can do
Caption: as a leader is just nod your head and
Caption: say yeah that's okay that's really toxic
Caption: so sit them down be clear what you're
Caption: expecting from them and help them get
Caption: there if someone is truly disruptive to
Caption: your team then you have to let them go
Caption: if they're not delivering one good way
Caption: to help improve this is to have team
Caption: norms or you can call it work and
Caption: agreements or charters but it's really
Caption: important that the team own these and
Caption: they're the ones that construct this and
Caption: the sign of a good team is when they'll
Caption: hold each other to account on their own
Caption: and their own team norms obviously
Caption: retrospectives are really important here
Caption: I really have got into some of the
Caption: health monitors of late as well so
Caption: there's a great one there by alas Ian
Caption: it's really easy to run and also it's a
Caption: great leading indicator as well because
Caption: sometimes you see the flags coming on or
Caption: you can see you know the green things
Caption: are starting to improve that the
Caption: velocity may not have done yet so that's
Caption: really helpful so it's really key to
Caption: treat people fairly don't think of them
Caption: as resources or commodities that can be
Caption: switched on or off so I try to get to
Caption: know my people spend some time doing one
Caption: two ones understand what makes them tick
Caption: their ambitions their goals outside of
Caption: work also encourage an environment which
Caption: is flexible so people you know can get
Caption: on with things outside of their lives
Caption: for the tech industry
Caption: it's really hard to hire good talent and
Caption: that's right up there with one of the
Caption: key things that people look for along
Caption: with being able to try new technologies
Caption: new opportunities for career growth so I
Caption: worked with one chap and I really liked
Caption: his saying and he said as leaders we
Caption: need to leave by example so set the time
Caption: for everyone else so I make a purpose of
Caption: you know going off to take my boy to
Caption: rugby practice or go into school
Caption: assembly you need to set that as a
Caption: leader so that it's okay exhibit the
Caption: right behaviors now in your team really
Caption: important to have some fun has some
Caption: humor you know have some you know
Caption: lunches some days out hopefully if
Caption: you've got a good heart in your team
Caption: though they learn that that and help
Caption: some of that along so this is the one
Caption: thing if you go away from this talk and
Caption: you remember it's this if you want to
Caption: stay valuable to your team and all to
Caption: also to your customer remember three
Caption: things make sure you stay positive you
Caption: stay engaged and you stay professional
Caption: thank you very much
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: you